So now the plan is to add an action
that will automatically run these tests.
Now we could do this again by going to actions
and adding this new action here, right from inside GitHub.
We can do this but actually since it is just a file
in our project anyways, we can also write it locally.
So in this second-action-react-demo folder,
I'll add a new sub folder, which has to be named .github
and this is a name you must use.
In there, you also must add a workflows folder.
Again, this name is not up to you,
it has to be named workflows.
And in this .github/workflows folder,
you add your workflow file
and that file name is now totally up to you.
Here, I will just name it test.yml
but the name is up to you as mentioned.
And in this test.yml file,
you now define your workflow that should be executed.
Now as before, for this first workflow we created,
you have to add a name, a trigger
and define the jobs you want.
So that's the same for this new workflow
which we create locally.
And in general, there is no difference
between creating it locally or on GitHub,
the structure and the keywords always are the same.
So here I'll add a name and I'll name it Test Project
because that is what this workflow will do,
it will test this project
and next we add a trigger.
Now the question is what could be a trigger here though?
Let's take a closer look at workflow triggers and events
and just to be clear, that's the same thing.
So let's take a closer look.
And GitHub Actions actually offers tons
of events you can listen to.
Most of them are repository related
and there you got events like a push happening
or a pull_request being opened,
or maybe a new branch was created
or the repository was forked,
or an issue was opened or deleted.
So there also are different variations for some
of these events, like an issue being opened or deleted,
both things can trigger a workflow
and of course you can control which exact event,
and which exact variation
of an event should trigger a workflow.
So there are many events related to repositories
and there also are some other events.
For example, we already saw workflow_dispatch
which allows us to manually trigger workflows.
We also got repository_dispatch
which would allow us to send REST API request
to a specific GitHub REST API to trigger a workflow,
we can run a workflow on a schedule so every day
at 8:00 AM for example,
and we can also allow a workflow to be called
by other workflows as something we will explore later.
To get a thorough overview and explanation
of all available events and event variations,
it's best if you simply search for GitHub Actions events
and then you should find a page that describes all
the events that can trigger a workflow,
how exactly these events are triggered
and for example, also here
at the example of the pull_request event,
which variations of that event can trigger a workflow.
So if for example, for this pull_request,
the workflow should be triggered when a new pull_request
is opened or maybe when it's closed or any other variation.
So there are many things you can do here
and it should be needless to say
that throughout this course,
we'll see many different event types
and variations in action,
so that you get a better understanding
for these different events and what they do.
But this documentation page, which you also find linked
to this lecture, also is a very useful page,
you should definitely take a look at
because this contains all the information
you could possibly need for any use case you have.
Now back here to this project,
since we have so many events available,
the question is what's the right event for this workflow?
Well, that of course simply depends on what your goal is
but here I would say it makes sense
that we wanna run all these tests
whenever a new push happens,
so whenever we push a new commit to our remote repository.
And therefore we can simply write push here.
And push is of course one of the events supported by GitHub
and as you can probably imagine,
one of the more important events, which is used quite a bit.
So here it states push event
and there are actually different ways
of defining this push event
because you can for example, also define that only pushes
to specific branches should trigger this workflow
but for the moment, that does not matter to us
so we can use this simple form here of defining this event,
we'll dive into more advanced definition of forms later.
So now this workflow with this name should run
whenever a new commit is pushed to the repository,
next we have to define a jobs that should be executed.
And we'll start with one simple job here
which I'll name test, which will perform these well, tests.
And here what we have to do as a first step
is we have to define our runner,
which in my case will again ubuntu-latest
on which we wanna run this job or these steps
that belong to this job,
and the steps are the next thing that has to be defined.
Here, we use these dashes to define all these steps
and I'll give my steps names.
And the first step which I define here,
is a step that should actually get the code,
download the code from the repository
because that's really important to understand,
your jobs and the steps that belong to these jobs,
run on servers, on machines owned by GitHub
or by you if you bring your own servers,
but here we're using a GitHub server.
They don't run inside of your repository,
you could think that they do, but they don't.
They are related to the repository,
they can get easy access to the repository code
but they don't run in the repository.
The repository is no server,
if anything, it's just a folder on a hard drive
on some machine owned by GitHub.
That's really important to keep in mind
because if you keep that in mind,
it should be clear that this server
which you get by GitHub to run your steps on,
does not have your code automatically.
Instead, if you have some steps that rely
on your code to be there as these steps here will,
you have to download your code as a first step.
If you wanna have steps that install dependencies
and run your tests, you must first get your code
onto this server that's provided by GitHub
and that's therefore the actual first step I'll define here,
a step that will download the code
from this GitHub repository
onto this runner, onto this server.
And that's where we will explore another key building block
provided by GitHub Actions and action.